    Switch from QA to PM (From QA to PM)

 

First I'm going to say there is no magic formula. The project managers I've
spoken to have all ended up in the profession from different paths, many
accidentally. Some roles may match better to making the switch than others but
with the right mindset, attitude and passion everything is possible, a lot of
the skills of good QA are ones which product managers need to possess as well.

Most QA people are extremely conscious of details, it’s that perfectionist
quality that can be very beneficial in a product management. The way a user
interacts with the product, the different variations in how it can be used, and
the details around how different functionality is implemented is very important.
QA usually has a great ability to analyze the functionality of a product and
identify problems, confusions or ways to make improvements. Product managers
usually good at the high-level strategy yet fail when it comes down to the
details. With QA, the opposite is more likely to be the case, since testing is
all about the details and less about the overall vision, people looking to
transition to product management need to make sure that they see "the forest"
and "the trees". QA is usually focused on making sure a product has no defects,
or at least as few as possible. As a product manager, you will often need to
make the choice between releasing a product with a defect or delaying launch or
re-prioritizing to fix the defect. The natural QA instinct will likely be to fix
the problem. As a product manager, you will need to analyze the severity of the
defect, the likelihood of a user encountering it, the impact of the defect on
the user, whether there are alternative methods the user can go through to get
around the defect, and other factors in deciding the overall priority of fixing
the problem. While a product manager from a different background may have no
problem releasing a product with a few defects, this decision may be much more
difficult for someone coming from QA.

Coming from QA could mean you are somewhat less technical than the developers on
your team, this means you rely more heavily on your tech lead and architect for
guidance on the work estimate and system impact of required changes. This can be
a good or a bad thing as there is a fine line between allowing a tech lead to
fulfill his or her role and the danger of becoming too comfortable with allowing
all the technical decisions to fall to another more knowledgeable team member.
You need to make a conscious effort to be constantly learning the inner workings
of the system and also recognize team member’s tendencies to over or under
estimate work effort and adjust plans accordingly. On the positive side of this,
needing input from members of the team in order to make decisions empowers the
team and I think reinforces the sense of ownership and pride in the team
product.

A small adjustment in communication style is probably required too. As QA you
find a bug and need to consider every possible part of the application that
could be affected. Testing needs to be as wide as possible and estimates need to
be conservative, leaving room for bug fixing. The PM on the other hand is being
fed this info and will likely need to communicate some plan to the client. This
communication cannot be hysterical or overly conservative. It needs to be
calculated, adjusted for reality and conveyed in a calm manner. And then there’s
the responsibility. There’s a great difference between being one of the team and
being the one responsible for everyone on the team making their deadlines.

It is much easier to switch from QA to product management within your current
company than to try to get a PM position with a new company when you don’t have
any experience with the title of Product Manager. If you are on a project
without a product manager or without strong leadership, take the opportunity to
step into the product manager role by volunteering to prioritize development
work, refine the strategy and goals, or whatever else is needed to show people
you are capable of acting as a product manager. Learn as much as you can about
the market and your customers, a solid understanding of customer needs and
market opportunities, combined with your experience in the product development
process, should make you an excellent candidate for a product management role.
