Top 10 QA Tools (My Top 10 QA Tools)

 

Selenium (<http://seleniumhq.org>) is a portable software testing framework for
web applications. It supports number of popular programming languages, including
C\#, Java, Groovy, Perl, PHP, Python and Ruby for writing test cases. The tests
can then be run against most modern web browsers. Selenium deploys on Windows,
Linux, and Macintosh platforms.

 

Firebug (<http://getfirebug.com>) is a well-known web development tool
integrates to Mozilla Firefox. You all know its great debugging, editing and
many other possibilities. I’d just like to add that it is especially helpful for
beginners, who want to look through the code, to see what the server returns.
When writing test cases, Firebug can be used to name an element, to know its id,
to describe bugs and elements.

 

Apache JMeter (<http://jmeter.apache.org>) is a load testing tool designed
initially for web applications. It allows measuring software performance both on
static and dynamic resources. Apart from its intended application, I used its
source code for writing scripts for continuous integration.

 

Acunetix Vulnerability Scanner (<http://www.acunetix.com>) detects and reports a
wide array of vulnerabilities in applications built on architectures such as
WordPress, PHP, ASP.NET, Java Frameworks, Ruby on Rails and many others.
Acunetix Vulnerability Scanner brings an extensive feature-set of both automated
and manual penetration testing tools, enabling security analysts to perform a
complete vulnerability assessment, and repair detected threats, with just the
one product. Results can be used to generate reports aimed towards developers
and management alike

 

Nmap (<https://nmap.org>) is a free and open source
([license](<https://nmap.org/data/COPYING>)) utility for network discovery and
security auditing. Nmap uses raw IP packets in novel ways to determine what
hosts are available on the network, what services (application name and version)
those hosts are offering, what operating systems (and OS versions) they are
running, what type of packet filters/firewalls are in use, and dozens of other
characteristics. It was designed to rapidly scan large networks, but works fine
against single hosts

 

Screaming Frog SEO Spider (<http://www.screamingfrog.co.uk/seo-spider>) is a
program which spiders websites’ links, images, CSS, script and apps from an SEO
perspective. It fetches key onsite elements for SEO, presents them in tabs by
type and allows you to filter for common SEO issues. It’s particularly good
for analyzing medium to large sites, where manually checking every page would be
extremely labour intensive or impossible.

 

Gtmetrix (<https://gtmetrix.com>) is an online web page speed analyzer. Includes
test results from other tools such as Google Page Speed and Yahoo! YSlow, checks
one page at a time and provides page pereformance analysis report and
suggestions for improvement. Capabilities include saving of results over time
and trend graphs/reports, automated periodic monitoring/alerting of one or more
URL's, monitoring from multiple locations worldwide etc.

 

Xenu’s Link Sleuth (<http://xenus-link-sleuth.en.softonic.com>) - is a great
tool for checking links. It was named the fastest link-checking software by
industry authorities. Apart from checking for broken links, the tool provides a
much broader functionality, which is useful primarily for website optimization.
For instance, Xenu provides the site map, detects and reports redirected URLs,
finds non-unique page titles, finds images with missing ‘alt’ attribute, etc.
Testers can use one more Xenu’s feature, which is searching for pages with long
response. Of course, this does not in any way replace load and performance
testing, but can provide some useful information about the response
optimization. I like Xenu for a simple and accurate interface as well.

 

Appium (<http://appium.io>) is an open-source tool for automating native, mobile
web, and hybrid applications on iOS and Android platforms. Appium is
"cross-platform": it allows you to write tests against multiple platforms (iOS,
Android) using the same API. This enables code reuse between iOS and Android
testsuites.

 

Jing (<https://www.techsmith.com/jing.html>) is a great computer service that
lets you capture basic video, animation and still images and share them on the
web
